PLUG REF REPEATERS                                   Steve Knight, Oct 91

[This is a PLUG ARCHIVE REF file]

Repeaters are nullary procedures that return an item each time they are
called until, finally, they return the special item -termin-.  This signals
the repeater is exhausted and further attempts to call the repeater 
typically result in a mishap.  (Repeaters are sometimes called generators 
or streams, too.)

The PLUG archive provides a family of routines to help with the manipulation
of repeaters.  These routines also introduce the idea of "pushable" repeaters.
These are repeaters with an updater.  The updater of a repeater pushes an item
back onto the repeaters internal buffer.  This is very useful when you would
like to peek a few items ahead without consuming items from the repeater.  
In the past, this has been done with -pdtolist-, but updateable repeaters 
give you the freedom to lookahead without the overhead of dynamic lists.


apprepeater( R, PROC )
        This procedure iterates over all the elements in a repeater, 
        exhausting the repeater, applying the procedure PROC to each 
        element in turn.


chain_repeaters( LIST ) -> RESULT
        This procedure takes a list of repeaters LIST and produces a 
        result repeater RESULT that uses each repeater in turn.  RESULT 
        is pushable.


consrepeater( N ) -> R
        This procedure takes a count N and N items off the stack and 
        returns a repeater of those items.  R is pushable.


destrepeater( R ) -> ( ...., N )
        This procedure takes a repeater R and exhausts it, leaving all 
        the items returned by the repeater on the stack, together with 
        a count N of those items. The same meaning as
            #| apprepeater( R, identfn ) |#
        although more efficient.


discin( file ) -> CR
        Given a file (either as a filename or device) returns a character
        repeater CR.  CR returns the characters of the file in sequence.
        See *DISCIN.  CR is NOT pushable.


discinline( file ) -> LR
        Given a filename, returns a line repeater LR.  LR returns each 
        line of the file in sequence.  See *DISCINLINE.


incharitem( CR ) -> IR
        Given an item character repeater CR, returns an item repeater IR, 
        which itemises according to the lexical syntax rules of Pop11.  See 
        REF *ITEMISE for details.  IR is NOT pushable.


incharline( CR ) -> LR
        Given a character repeater, returns a line repeater.


listtopd( L ) -> R
        Given a list L, returns a repeater constructed from all the
        elements of L in order.  R is pushable.


maprepeater( R, PROC ) -> MR
        This procedure takes a repeater R, a procedure PROC, and returns 
        a repeater MR.  Each element of MR is generated by applying 
        proc to the corresponding element of R.  Note that -maprepeater- 
        does not exhaust R, unlike -apprepeater-.  MR is pushable.


newpushable( R ) -> PR
        Takes a repeater R and returns a copy, PR.  PR is pushable.


newtokeniser( FSM ) -> R
        Takes a finite state machine, specified by FSM, and generates
        an itemiser based on that machine.  See HELP *NEWTOKENISER for
        details.


-----------------------------------------------------------------------
