HELP PROJECTS                                        Steve Leach, Feb 05

A project is GOSPLs basic building block.  It is a standard directory
format for code development and contains the following top-level files
and directories.   All of these files and directories are optional.

    init.p      Initialization file, loaded immediately the project is
                loaded.  In general, you should aim to keep this
                lightweight in consideration of users who are only
                trying to learn the project or refer to its documentation.

    auto        Autoloadable directory which is put onto the search path
                -popautolist- when the project is loaded.

    doc         Documentation directory put onto the search path
                -veddoclist- when the project is loaded.  Not used a
                great deal these days, conceived of as being useful for
                long documents that were too unwieldy to read on the
                screen.

    help        Directory of user guide files put onto the search
                path -vedhelplist- when the project is loaded.  See
                HELP *STANDARDS for the official format.

    include     Directory of include files, put onto the search
                path -popincludelist- when the project is loaded.

    lib         Directory of optional libraries that have to be
                explicitly loaded with the -lib- or -uses- commands.
                It is put onto the search path -popuseslist- when
                the project is loaded.

    ref         Directory of reference files put onto the search
                path -vedreflist- when the project is loaded.  See
                HELP *STANDARDS for the official format.

    src         Source code directory, typically used for the core
                of the project, perhaps loaded by the init.p file.
                This directory is put onto the -vedsrclist- and
                the files can be loaded with the GOSPL commands
                -libsrc- and -usessrc-.  They can be browsed in
                Ved via ENTER showlib <name> RETURN.

    teach       Directory of tutorial files put onto the search
                path -vedteachlist- when the project is loaded.

GOSPL also supports project collections which are directories containing
project subdirectories.  See *PROJECT_COLLECTIONS

Note that there is an alternative project tool in Poplog, the
pop_ui_projecttool.  This tool relies on an explicit manifest file
(extension *.prj) rather than conventional subdirectories to categorize
files.  At the moment, GOSPL and the POP_UI_PROJECTTOOL are
independent alternatives with quite distinct motivations.

See also:
    HELP *PROJECT_COLLECTIONS
    HELP *POP_UI_PROJECTTOOL
