HELP EPSON_FX_1000                                  Steve Knight, Oct 91

    lib epson_fx_1000
    gprint <file>           ;;; macro
    prgraph( <proc>, <optional bool> )

This library makes available two commands for making use of the EPSON FX 1000
printer.

-- The gprint Command -------------------------------------------------

    GPRINT is a command which prints out a file on the EPSON printer,
converting VED's line drawing characters into proper line-drawing on the
printer. There are three forms of gprint as follow:

      % gprint foo       - from shell, print file foo

      : gprint foo       - from POP11 (use it like LOAD etc.)

      <enter> gprint     - inside ved, gprint current file

This final form (<enter> gprint) is selective about graphics printing - it
only uses graphics (reduced line spacing etc) for lines that contain graphics
characters. Other lines are printed normally.

IMPORTANT: gprint opens the printer directly, and to do this, it has to
    lock the printer queue. If it fails to do this (eg because another job is
    currently being printed), a mishap results ('Can't lock LP queue'), and
    the command is aborted - try again later!


Notes about GPRINT:

    1) GPRINT converts the line drawing characters used by VED (more
       specifically the codes as used by VISUAL 200 terminals) into specially
       defined line-drawing characters for the printer. All other characters
       are left alone.
    2) The line-spacing is reduced to 7, to make sure the veritcal lines join
       up properly. Unfortunately this means that adjacent lines of TEXT tend
       to be rather close (indeed descenders and ascenders overlap). This
       problem is caused by the line printer driver only allowing 7 bits of
       data to be sent and hence can only be cured by a system hacker!
       Using <enter> gprint with arguments (see above) is one way of avoiding
       this problem. Alternatively, the variable PRGRAPH_LINESPACING can be
       set to change this if desired - at the expense of gaps in the vertical
       lines. BUG!! don't make line spacing more than 8 !
    3) Graphics printing is always leaves the printer in PICA mode.


-- The prgraph Procedure ----------------------------------------------

    PRGRAPH is a utility to allow proper printing of graphics characters on
the EPSON FX-100 printer.

    The procedure PRGRAPH takes one or two arguments:

            prgraph(proc,bool)   or    prgraph(proc)


    PRGRAPH sets up an environment where the procedure GRAPH_CHAROUT is a
character consumer which send characters to the printer, translating graphichs
characters as necessary, and then calls PROC. Thus any output produced  by PROC
and sent to GRAPH_CHAROUT will be printed with graphics as appropriate.

    The boolean BOOL dictates whether to set up the graphics characters or not
(true means do set them up). In general, it should be TRUE, except where
successive calls of PRGRAPH are made and the character data remains set up
between them. PRGRAPH(PROC) is the same as PRGRAPH(PROC,TRUE).


Initialisation for graphics printing sets the following (see EPSON manual
for more details):

        download char set, unidirectional, line spacing = 7, PICA mode

After PROC is called the settings are reset to:

        rom char set, bidirectional, line spacing = 12


The graphics line spacing defaults to 7, giving the prettiest graphics, but
may be changed by assigning a new value to PRGRAPH_LINESPACING.
The reset procedure will reset the font to ELITE mode if the variable
PRGRAPH_ELITE is true - it defaults to false.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
